my name is brett shear i'm the cofounder
and CEO at sleek we also have some of
the team members here on the call
harrisonhines our CEO Janssen sahaja our
CTO is on the call some other people
this talk is called super pinning with
fleek storage this it's the name is
after we're a new product we're
releasing it's called sleek storage and
we'll definitely walk through that today
I'll give you like a demo kind of like a
sneak peek it's not currently right now
public but will be very soon so you'll
get a kind of sneak peek demo of that
this call also you know don't not going
to skip over like what is fleek and our
current product gets out there the fleek
hosting product that's been abdu super
well and getting a lot of great feedback
so we'll walk through that as well even
do it in a kind of quick demo format and
then of course talk about the details of
how we do it at how we're pinning get
into the details behind the scenes so
I'll just kind of popped in what is
fleek we so we are a modern web
development tool for absent sites that
are building on top of IP FS so a lot of
the projects here speaking today are
supporting and building with the ipfs
ecosystem we take a lot of pride in
making the user experience very seamless
for developers to enter the space as
well as current projects and apps that
are building on ipfs to have a tool to
make that experience really great so
what that includes is the first thing we
launched was the flink hosting product
and we continue to add on it with our
releases going forward but you can kind
of see over here in this quick gif which
I'll give you more a better dive in but
it has a kind of seamless integration to
any get provider you have github to
start and then from there it's like a CI
CD pipeline to connect the get provider
deploy and
host that will deploy host outside in
ipfs we have a CDN built into it any
future deployments or future commits
that get provider will trigger
deployments from there automatically and
then DNS management as well so kana this
whole just feature set that's very with
the trend of kind of jam stack static
websites and giving that super seamless
nice experience for developers today to
deploy to blow their a pond on ipfs so
I'll give a walkthrough on that for sure
and then the other thing which we're
really excited about that I wanted to
highlight we just released last week is
DNS domains support so this is something
that you know within the ipfs community
there's definitely a lot of theorem
users or web 3 just blockchain ball
chains in general that go very well with
ipfs so because of that we've gotten
it's been a really high request of ours
to add support for us directly so that
that's something we released we're
excited about and yeah so that's not the
only like domain you can just you can do
regular DNS management like a subdomain
or root domain but and also DNS link as
well we support and most recently in us
and then we were definitely planning on
making a very seamless experience for
IPS as well so from there I'll just hop
over to kind of just show off that in
action let's see we're still seeing my
screen right yep no problem
okay cool yeah so this is the fleek app
right here this is the sites page where
any developer once you sign up it's
really this is this is a list of sites
that I've already deployed but it's a
very seamless experience as just once
you to add a site you connect github
connect your github from there select
your repo and then once you select a
repo you can input your build settings
so that's really just like and then
click deploy so it's really just three
it can be very quick three steps to kind
of hit that deployment but then in this
step you know we what we do is like we
read the package JSON and auto detect
like what framework you might be using
and then fill in those build settings
for you so here's an example of some of
them you can select from as well and it
will autofill those settings you can
customize as much as you like it's kind
of that blend between like being the
quickest easiest way to deploy as well
as having like the most customizable
options where you can like so here I can
change the dock image to whatever my
specific configuration is that I need to
deploy I build my site we have a bunch
of dock images that we've kind of made
like defaults depending on different
frameworks might be using to make it
easy as well as any different node
versions you might have and those stock
images so yeah that kind of just makes
it a smooth experience but also very
customizable and then deploy from here
what's happening is that you'll go it's
like logs view and the logs view you can
you can watch like what's happening is
basically we're using a docker image
we're building the cloning the repo
using a docker image to build it and
then take that the boost deployed files
deploy it onto ipfs we are running nodes
as well as using I have like additional
redundancy I'm using service providers
specifically like temporal pinata or a
couple that we use and then from there
once it's deployed oh so this might take
a minute or two to
kind of hit that deployment step so I'll
just hop over the one I have right here
so what happens is as soon as it's
deployed is we will take that we'll take
the hash from the deployment and map
it's a auto-generated terminal Fleet
subdomain
so I think it might just refresh that
but so then from there you can just
click and preview with your sleek URL
like this is a sight to coin IVFs and
things we do to make it like very
performant load really quick is we've
augmented ipfs with a CDN we use like
CloudFlare c and currently there's
definitely a lot of really exciting
things we've been thinking about and
down the line we want to do to use ipfs
itself and following the line as a CDN
built into the platform but currently
that makes it so it has a good very
performant experience right off the bat
and then from there you can add like any
sort of domains you'd like those are the
different options we support I showed
you I was showing you the UNESCO for but
you can add like a sub domain so in this
case like I just I added this sub domain
okay fast on your experiences calm and
just go over to your DNS provider put in
that record click verify and it'll be
hooked up to your occupy site and then
here's the ENS section and you know kind
of the probably the best to really see
that ENS experience this gift gives it
off pretty well so I'll go back into
present mode yeah so with ENS you can
see like it's we've made it like a
really seamless experience where you
just input your ENS domain click confirm
and then we just ask you if that is in
fact this we show you the registrant
address for us and if it is in fact
yours you just click confirm and then
it's one transaction and we take
advantage of the built in experience
that ENS put in the smart contracts
where you set us as a controller and as
a controller you give us the kind of
day-to-day operation ability to update
the content hash so we update that give
us hash for
making transactions for future
deployments so that you know you kind of
make one transaction and from there on
you don't have to worry about it again
and we can update the hash for future
deployments to your ENS domain for you
and then at the end of the day if you
are the registrant on the ENS domain you
can change the controller at any point
you want and still have complete control
over ENS as well so we're definitely
happy with with how that experience has
come out so yeah that's pretty much the
full like fleet hosting product and and
what's there what's there today and then
what we've been working on and are
excited to kind of show off for the
first time even though it's not like
fully public today is the fleet storage
so with fleet storage we'll be done as
we built an app a CLI and even its s3
compatible so with any s3 AWS SDK you
can interact with our storage solution
these the I'll go ahead and walk through
the the app interface and and kind of
give you a demo of that but pretty much
the main things we focused on for that
is giving it like a really good UI
experience just kind of how we've we've
gone around the hosting experience as
well so we've of course included drag
and drop of your folders and files kind
of watch the loading see the finals come
in a browsing UI to be able to dive in
through files through folders and files
seeing ipfs hashes at the bucket level
at the folder level within the bucket
and even down to the individual files
and being able to verify and ipfs
gateway directly similar to how we have
with the the deployed sites and the
hosting and what we've done to make sure
it's very performant and we've kind of
packed it into one solution is we
augmented with a CDN we have file
compression and image resizing as well
so pretty much it's kind of like a
one-stop a really easy way with a nice
management UI experience
to take advantage of all your apps kind
of storage needs on ipfs so anything
like so it should be a really simple
really easy integration from your
application standpoint and we've talked
with a lot of projects while you built
it to make sure that's the case to just
kind of drop in a URL or interact with
the SDK and the s3 interface of course
makes it that very compatible friendly
experience developers already used to
and then that UI management that that we
provide is welcome so I think yeah this
is where all I'll hop in and we'll do
demo number two all right so yeah this
is the the fleet storage UI where here's
like this is the kind of this is within
a bucket interface to start off we have
we have one bucket and we'll begin the
ability to have multiple but at this
time you can add any number folders or
files directly so the flow is pretty
much just like upload and you can browse
directly in on your machine or you can
you know kind of drag and drop like to
show off the dragon job feature and then
from there once you upload it'll kind of
give you this little loading state so
you can watch and see through your files
and then that's pretty much it if you do
a folder or files as well and then you
can see right here that we give you like
a URL a bucket like a storage bucket URL
for fleek and then we also have on the
ipfs gateway as well so if you like dive
into this URL you can kind of see in
like more of a gateway view of your
files or directly on ipfs gateway with
the hash of the bucket and then as you
dive into the folders or the files
individually you can see the hash of
each of those as well and so I'll just
kind of pop up and um
I'll just uploaded and then you can see
details about this file in particular
little preview image some actions you
can take hash and of course being able
to view the file directly we're still
wrapping up a little bit of the honor
our URLs itself and just kind of
finalizing that so this will be out very
soon you know definitely better
beginning next week for sure so and we
have a lot of super exciting users that
are already giving feedback and getting
ready to use it so that's exciting
okay I'll hop back over from demo number
two yeah you got a two-for-one demo and
then yeah so I'll give some from you
I'll give some more details like you
know this is a pending summit let's
let's kind of dive into what's going on
behind the scenes so we are using a
combination of different services as
well as hosting things ourselves yeah we
do host it ourselves but like so for
instance one of the main things we do is
for the buckets that we create we use
textile threads and we put all of the
metadata in relation to that bucket in
textile threads so that the bucket data
itself the bucket metadata about the
bucket itself is also an IP FS then any
crud actions so any upload creation
further deleting etc is through the like
an s3 interface so we are using like s3
and Mineo behind the scenes too and the
API interface to our app to call those
commands and we're on temporal X nodes
behind the scenes and also and so
basically once we call those once we use
a closed api's we had handlers that will
take that operation whether to create so
and basically make create the upload the
file on type EFS take the hash from
PFS and then publish the dns with that -
that ipfs - and then that's how we map
it onto the Gateway itself there's
definitely some intricacies that we've
had to work through in that process with
the handlers that are quite complicated
so for instance like if you look at the
s3 interface itself like and and how it
interacts and syncs with ipfs it's not
really like a direct match there isn't
really a concept of like folders or
buckets in that case so it's something
we've had to kind of create ourselves
and and create that sync and
understanding that's how we've been able
to actually like create and sync up like
a buck a hash for the bucket itself a
hash for the files in relation to the to
the bucket data and then once it's
hooked up and published the DNS our you
know storage fleet Co we have our CDN so
we use CloudFlare currently where that
is giving us like the service of being
all around the edge and being able to
cache and deliver these files in the
most performant way possible and then
the head comes with compression features
as well as we we have image resizing
features in there as well
and then on top of all that you know
with once we once our handler is
basically take the uploaded files and
put it in this in this pin queue we also
have this pen queue that replicates
everything to other service providers
for additional redundancy so that's
where like we and we work with closely
with like temporal and pinata to create
additional like to give that redundancy
and make sure that those files stay
stored my PFS yeah so that's kind of a
bit of the of the details that's I
probably could have jump to the slide
while I talk to that it's pretty much
exactly what this thing and if there's
more questions about that and more
details we have our CTO on the iMac all
Jennison so he'll definitely be able to
dive in for
than I can but yeah where are we going
from here yeah definitely some exciting
upcoming sort of changes or upgrades I
want to say where we will be using
textile buckets textile buckets or
textile even more so that the way we
interact with the way we store data is
improved we're like so the the buckets
j/s is something we're waiting for to be
ready for us so that we can kind of not
just put the metadata on threads and
with us forming threads nodes right now
we also want to interact with products
directly and you know it's been great
working with what textile closely to
make sure that's gonna be working out
well
and then also the privacy aspect you
know with threads something I had
mentioned is they have an amazing
encryption service built-in so anything
that we use on threads is automatically
encrypted and that's something that we
definitely want to take advantage with
take advantage of with files using the
buckets j/s interface and using their
and the private buckets aspect and then
of course down the in the in the roadmap
is that the file point storage
interactive file coin itself and being
able accept payments it's definitely
something we've just accepting payments
and cryptocurrencies as well as double
something we want to support
it's very aligned with our ENS support
and we've had you know we do have pro
plans right now and you can upgrade and
pay with credit card so I mean it's a
very smooth process but also we've had
requests for with cryptocurrency
you know mostly ether at this point but
like and so we'll continue to definitely
support that so yeah that's kind of like
you know the whole hosting run down the
storage app I tried to give like a whole
whole breakdown of everything we've done
so far give you some some live action to
the demos and yeah we're really excited
with a storage lease definitely stay
stay tuned for that will be announced to
get very soon on Twitter and on to our
current users so they can take advantage
of it I will just go directly to the the
current app right now and we're really
thankful to have opportunity present and
talk and be a part of the ipfs community
and work with everyone here so yeah you
can contact us or our fleek fleek
Twitter or email we are super responsive
we have a slack community there's an
intercom in the in the app directly on
the homepage as well and we even have a
discourse for after queue so you know we
really try to make it as easy as
possible get in touch with us and ask
any questions we definitely take support
very you know very seriously
so we're there yeah I think that's
pretty much it yeah we have Jennison
here as well so I didn't really dive in
too deep to the CLI and now CK if that's
if you have questions about that it
would've been awesome didn't even third
demo and and run through that yeah it's
a run-through like how to get it set up
in your app and do an integration could
turn this into an onboarding session
even but yeah if you have questions
about that you can as well just as Mike
in eg we're suggesting more more
onboarding and more getting started mr.
folks looks like we have one question
from from Joris can you deploy next j/s
projects as well totally totally that's
one of the frameworks that only like
kind of auto-detected and already
supported so if you're using next J's
framework will be able to detect that
and fill in the build settings for you
click the POI if you have like you need
an older version of node or any
customizations we have a bunch of
different like dock images in our tech
Doc's that you can you can find and yeah
we're any other custom configuration you
can make your own dock images as well
from Joel how do you guys do key
management how can you control the keys
for your bucket awesome yeah so our own
key management we're using
what's built into manao and we're using
AWS KMS and etcd for the policies and
then hooking that up to manao because
they have that plug-in so that's how
we're doing key management and it's
pretty standard and just answering the
questions from one on the chat toughest
travelers working with ipfs i think it's
like just getting data available when
you need it as fast as you can just due
to the DHT nature and the pinning and
kind of like it's so decentralized so
you kind of have to you know make sure
things are pinned where when you want
them and available so we do things like
pre pre requesting cells as soon as
things are uploaded so that when the
user or site or another platform goes to
it it's already being kind of you know
percolating across the network and
things like that and like Brett said
redundant pinning and stuff like that so
that's that's definitely been a
challenge in just bridging like all of
the web to and with the technology so I
think that's kind of in a nutshell but
definitely fun from TD King is there an
s3 like high-level API available to the
sleek storage or in your plans yeah
definitely so because we built on
temporals s3x which is built on manao it
actually comes with the full s3 api
built in so you could use any s3 or
midnight of compliant sdk and CLI
including the AWS s3 COI and api to
interact with it but then we also are
introducing fleet Jas which is going to
be like well there's still I PSS extras
that you know s3 doesn't cover as an
interface so bridging that gap with our
own fleet Jas that's gonna kind of build
on top of these existing ones awesome
another question in the chat is there
any tooling that would make your lives
easier better as infrastructure
providers that folks could could build
to solve all your problems I think just
what's kind of out there
tomaranai with things like temporal and
Kannada and just kind of for me it's
like taking that up one level and like
being able to see across the globe where
are these pins relative to the users and
having that kind of visibility on the
pins in addition to being able to pin
them I think that what comes to mind
there